Sick of waiting for your
CIA test to pass or
having to manage different CII
servers for different teams using
Buildkite. You can run fast
and reliable CIA pipelines for
every type of project, whether
it's backend tests, mobile apps,
or even custom hardware build
kites agent helps you scale
to thousands of parallel jobs
and your secrets and source
code never leave your infrastructure.
There's great documentation, a clean
web UI, and plugins for
different types of tools. Visit
Buildkite that's K I T
e.com/hanselman for a 14 day
free trial. And see how
Shopify has scaled from 300
to 1500 engineers while keeping
their build times under five
minutes, that's built kite.com/hanselman. Hi,
this is Scott Hanselman, Hansel
minutes today. I'm speaking with
Dylan Bennett, also known as M
often on the internet. He's
an educator and the author
of game development with the
Pico eight. How are you,
sir? I'm doing well. How
are you? I am very
well. I have been learning
all about the Pico eight
and the folks who are
listening to this episode might
want to go back in
time and listen to the
episode we did with Joseph White
on the Pico eight fantasy
console. They can learn even
more, but as I started
learning about game development, I'm
just finding you all over
the place, the Portland indie
game squad and on a
website called itch.io. What does
itch.io? It started out as
a publishing site for independent
game. Developers makes it really
easy for pretty much anyone
to publish is whatever they
want. And without having to
get in the way with,
you know, things like getting
approval by steam and, you
know, go through a lot
of hoops and you can
fully adjust, you know, how
much, what percentage goes to
itch versus what percentage goes
to the developer. Things like
that. That is very clever.
So it's not steam, it's
an open marketplace and it's
really for independent creators with
the focus of course, on
an independent games. That's right.
So you can, anyone can
sell anything up there. It's
almost like Etsy for video
games. Yeah. And you can
set it up to be
a pay what you want.
You can hook it up
to Patrion for example, and
make certain things, you know,
open to patrons or the
general public. And w I
talked about Pico eight, this
fantasy console that did, you
know, it doesn't exist. You
physically can't touch it unless
you build your own. Why
is, why do Pico eight
game makers find themselves so
often on edge that, Oh,
I think it's because it's
just so easy. It's you
can go right from making
a game and minutes later,
you have it published up
on a page that has,
you know, it's basically its
own storefront for that game
really in minutes. That's amazing.
And you also have your
game development with Pico eight
stored up as well. So
people can go and buy
this a 72 page book
effectively. You call it Azine
about doing game development. And
then you can, like you
say, you can pick your
price. You recommend, you know,
I don't know. I think
you would recommend, I think
I paid you 15 bucks,
but you can also pick
nothing if you are a,
a, a student or someone
who can't a candidate. Yeah.
I put it up there
because I want to make
it accessible to anyone. If
they would like to contribute,
then they're absolutely welcome to,
I appreciate your contribution, but
I want to make it
available for anyone who just
wants us. You know, I
want to learn how to
make games and this will
get you started When, when
I go and search for
game development and I've done
this with my sons and
other young people, I often
find myself in places like
unity and, you know, I
love unity and I've even
had folks from like mano
on my show, but it
seemed frankly a little bit
overwhelming. Like, it doesn't feel
like there's an easy hello
world. I totally agree. That's
one of the things that
spurred me to make this,
or in make educational tools
for game development using Pico
weight was because there's very
little setup and ramp up.
It's, you know, you get
a blank canvas and you
can just start typing things
in and run it and
immediately see something and get
something back. There's, you know,
there's not a big framework
to learn. There's not a
lot of, you know, language
constructions that you have to
learn. You just can kind
of sit down and just
get started. It feels though,
like, as I'm exploring Pico
eight, that a lot of
people who may be more
advanced, more advanced than my
11 year old, like to
fit things in like a
tweet and it comes off
looking like almost like minified
code. Yeah, yeah, No, absolutely
not. I mean, that's kind
of, one of the things
about constraints is people like
to push a constraint as
far as they can. So,
you know, when you add
Pico eight, which has its
own constraints, you know, like
128 pixels by Hernan 28
pixels, certain number of, you
know, colors, things like that.
And then you add on
the further constraint of now
it has to fit in
a tweet. People will really
do some amazing things to
pack as much as they
possibly can into that tiny
amount of code space. Okay.
So if I'm getting used
to this, or this has
been my introduction and maybe
copy pasting from a tweet
into the Pico eight editor
is my first introduction to
game development. I shouldn't let
that slow me down. Oh
yeah, definitely not. That's these
are almost pieces of art
in themselves in terms of
coding to pack in as
much as they can. It's
kind of similar to the
demo scene that was around
for quite a long time
in our early days. Okay.
A lot of kids right
now are learning JavaScript and
learning Python. That seems to
be, those are the two
languages that people jump into
when they're in their tweens
or in their teens. Do
you prefer Pico eight as
a place for a new
person to start learning to
program as an introduction, let's
learn to program step one,
Pico wait. Yes. And no.
It's uses a language called
Lua, which is, it's a
great language and it's relatively
easy to learn and understand
what's happening with it. It's
not as widely used as
a Python or JavaScript or
other languages like that, but
it does allow you to
learn the basic fundamentals of
what makes programming work. And
that I feel is more
important than the language itself.
Is it full Lua or
is it just the basics?
Because when I see games
in, in Pico eight, and
as I looked through your
Xen, it's pretty much like
variables and tables, which appear
to be like late bound
objects or late bound hash
tables of some kind. And
that's basically it loops and
ifs and it could be
any language. Yeah, it's, it
is a subset of lieu.
It's not the full Lua
language. And it also has
a little bit of extras
added in by Joseph in
terms of making it more
functional for making games and
specifically for Pico eight. So
it isn't the full Lula
language, but I've had quite
a few students who have
started off knowing absolutely nothing
about programming and ended up
loving the subject and going
on to new, do many,
many more things just because
they were able to get
their head around how programming
works using this simple system.
Hmm. I like that your
tutorial. And again, this tutorial
is available up at
Datto and I'll make sure
that we have links in
the show notes in just
72 pages. You can walk
through it in an afternoon
on a Saturday or Sunday
and just have a real
thing running at the end.
It builds so quickly though,
you start with, you know,
effectively hello world. And by
the end, you're moving stuff
around. When does it really
like make the big move?
Like when does it, like,
when does the, the hockey
stick begin? Because you know
what I'm saying? Yeah. Well,
that's something that I've found
is a tough thing. Just
in terms of teaching coding
in general, there's so many
fantastic resources for, you know,
beginning learning coding, and, you
know, they have this really
nice, easy, shallow ramp up
to learning coding. And some
of those materials are absolutely
fantastic. Like the hour of
code materials that many, many
people have put out, but
they kind of leave you
at the end of, okay,
now what you know, and
let's say, okay, let's say
you have a, you know,
someone who really enjoyed what
they did, you know, with
those materials, like learning, scratch,
or, you know, other hour
of code materials that are
out there. And then now
they want to really get
into actually making something, you
know, in the real world,
where does non-trivial begin. Yeah.
And what I found is
a lot of times, there's
just this cliff drop off
of, you know, okay, now
here in the deep end
go, you know, so what
I was trying to do
with my tutorial was just
trying to give them a
little bit of a more
realistic intro to what the
coding is actually going to
be like for making a
game. And I found that
when I was learning coding
years and years ago, I
learned by, you know, typing
code. And that was in
these magazines. You know, that,
you know, you'd have the
three, two, one contact magazines
would have these programs in
the back that you could
type in. And then you,
you know, you type it
all in and then you'd
run it and maybe something
would be wrong. You go
back and fix it and
then you've run it. And
it does this cool thing.
And now you have this
program typed in, you can
go and tweak it and
change it. And I found
that was actually more effective
for learning how to program
than really like learning like
step by step individual things
about programming. It was, you
know, actually just typing in
a bunch of code and
then making tweaks and changes
and then continuing to make
tweaks and changes until you
really start to get your
head around, Oh, this is
how this works Indeed. In
your tutorial. One of the
things that I appreciate that
you've done is that from
around nine page 28 or
page 30, there's like a
wall of code. And you
say, just type this in,
you know, like just type
it in, trust me, it'll
be fine. But honestly, other
than having a funky font,
because if you take a
look at Pico aid, it
has a very unusual kind
of all caps font that
can make your eyes blur
a little bit. I think
it's only like 25 lines.
It's not pages and pages.
And I remember in the
back of compute magazine, you
know, writing three or four
pages and there's not even
so much as an explanation,
No, it's just straight up.
Yeah. So that was intentional.
I didn't want each step
to contain more than, you
know, a certain amount of
code to type in because
I've, I've taught a lot
of students and writing a
lot of code can, you
know, derail a lot of
times, but there is something
educational about just typing in
code and not just copying
and pasting it from one
thing from know you tutorial,
text and pasting it into
the editor. There's something actually
educational about typing it in
yourself and doing that a
lot. But I did want
to keep it limited. So
you're not just typing in
pages and pages. It's a
really good point. I do
think that a lot of
tutorials do propose that we
copy paste from here to
there. But you're basically saying
the same thing that people
say when you take notes
during a lecture, even if
you never read the notes
again, the act of, of,
you know, the kinesthetic act
of having it go into
your brain, out into your
hands, onto a piece of
paper, and then back into
your eyes, even if it
never does that, again has
value. Yeah. It really does.
You, you start to, as
you type it in, you
start to feel the flow
of, you know, Oh, this
is how, you know, functions
are constructed and you you've,
you've typed it in enough
times. You start to, Oh
yeah, they're always going to
start with this. Oh yeah.
Or you always have to
make sure you put this
at the end, you know,
things like that. And you
start to develop that, you
know, almost like muscle memory
about typing code, but also
you just start to feel
how it all fits together.
Hi, friends as a programmer,
you think an object's with
Mongo DB. So does your
database, Mongo DB is the
most popular document based database
built for modern application developers
on the cloud era, millions
of developers use Mongo DB
to power. The world's most
innovative products and services from
cryptocurrency to online gaming IOT
and more, you can try
Mongo DB today with Atlas,
the global cloud database service
that runs on AWS Azure
and Google cloud configure, deploy
and connect to your database
in just a few minutes,
check it out at Mongo
db.com/atlas. That's M O N
G O D b.com/atlas. One
of the other things that
was interesting to me about
Pico eight and why it
was an interesting thing to
be chosen is that it
feels ancient in that you're
writing code in the eighties.
And it feels very, you
know, very basic. It feels
very much kind of like
the metal in that you're
writing what feels like low-level
code, right? But you also
have the power of a
modern machine, 30 frames a
second, or maybe 60, if
you, if you insist on
it, which then isn't the
metal and it isn't ancient,
it's incredibly modern. You can
do a huge amount of
stuff in 60 frames a
second. Okay. Yeah. That's actually
one of the things I
really like about it, especially
for teaching is because you're
kind of like, as you
said, you know, down to
the metal of it, you,
you have this fast feedback
loop where you type in
some code and you immediately
see what that code does.
You know, you can type
in a few lines of
code and then run it
and right there, you see
it. And that was something
that I've, I felt has
been lost a bit, you
know, basic was fantastic for
that, where you could just
type in a few lines
of code and see what
it does. And I don't
know if you remember a
gorilla Dodd basic from years
ago, but I learned so
much code from just typing
in little pieces and making
little tweaks and changes to
that basic code and then
running it, and then immediately
seeing like, Oh, wow, all
right, this changes the size
of the explosions. And then
going and finding other things
that this changes, how fast
the banana moves, you know,
things like that At my
company, we call that the
developers inner loop, right? We
wrote four loops and stuff.
The inner loop is the,
make a change, press a
button, see the change. And
if you can make the
inner loop as little as
possible, where, you know, 50
years ago the inner loop
was make a change. Right.
Right. Yeah. Back at the
inner loop in game development
should be as fast as
possible. And even ideally if
one could be making the
change and having it, having
the game never stop running.
Right. It would be idealized.
Yeah. I do remember someone
actually did create something like
that, but the, but the
Interloop in Pico weight is
very short and I feel
that's important for people who
are learning programming because you
can, you can see what
each change does and you
can, you can feel how
it, how it developed as
you build it. Yeah. Especially
since there's a lot of,
of kind of like low
key math involved in this
case, it's kind of basic
algebra. So if I'm going
through creating the moon land
or get the cave diver
game in your Azine, I'm
changing X and Ys and
sprites and thrusts and kind
of physics, physics, and whatnot.
I want to be able
to save and run, save
and run. And, you know,
I think I made a
couple of typos and it
was pretty clear, you know,
when the Lander goes flying
off into the corner, that,
that, that was my bad,
not your bed. Yeah. Yeah.
Now there's two things that
are not realistic about the
tutorial that I wrote I'm
in or the tutorials that
are in those scenes. One
they're, they don't go concept
by concept explaining. And so
you like your, it doesn't
give you an explanation in
an under a full understanding
of each concept as it
goes, really the, the goal
of those tutorials is to
harken back to those days
where you just type in
a bunch of code and
run it and see what
happens and then go tweak
stuff. And those, you know,
as you mentioned, there'd be
pages and pages of code
and you wouldn't know what
it does. You just type
it in and see what
happens. And there is some
value to that. So I
wanted the tutorials in that
scene to reflect that where
you just type in a
bunch of code and then
run it and see what
happens. But there's also an,
another aspect to it. That's
a bit artificial, which is
each step of those tutorials
does not go and change
previous code. You're just building
on what code you've already
written. And the original versions
of the tutorials that I
had tested out with a
number of students actually had
to go back and change
code, because that's often what
you actually do when you're
really writing code is you,
you write something and you'll
go back and change it.
Seven, eight, nine, 20, 30
times before you're done. And
this one, because it's, as
a tutorial, I found that
when students had to go
back and change something, that's
almost one for one where
they went off the rails
and got lost, or, you
know, didn't understand what was
happening. And so I built
this one where you only
are adding on to the
code that you've already written
and those difficulties cleared right
up. But again, that's not
a, that's not a, you
know, a realistic way that
you write code. Sure. But
as an OnRamp though, always
moving forward. Right. Makes sense.
Like, if there's a really
great device that I recommend
to folks that are teaching
kids to code called the
Piper, and it's a little
raspberry PI based machine and
you build it out of
wood, so they send you
the pie or the screen.
And then when you assemble
a laptop, particularly, right. Yeah.
And the game uses a
custom Minecraft engine. I remember
that. Yeah. Yeah. It has
no keyboard. And you actually
can do the whole first
tutorial using just the mouse
because you're basically helping a
little robot learn to walk.
And during that, you actually
get, you get a breadboard
and you wire up a
button and the first button
is to move forward. Huh.
Literally it can't move left
or right. It can only
move forward. Yeah. And then
in the moving forward, you
can then get the ability
to turn left, to turn.
Right. It's a similar kind
of an idea where there's
no modifications. There is it's
right. Only as you March
forward. And you've designed your
Xen where you have basically
the text grayed out that
you've already written. Right. And
all they have to do
is insert. So it's insert
only, it's a very clever
way to teach. And it
prevents a lot of potential
mistakes and whether it's realistic
or not, doesn't matter, it
sets the kids up for
success. Yeah. And you know,
it, it's very helpful for
them to have that feeling
of like, Oh, I'm like
continuing, you know, to add
things and move forward. And
then it also just makes
it easier to, they're already
learning so many other things
at the same time, you
know, to then muddle up
by having to go back
and change something that you
already created can make it
something. And by kids, I
mean, full grown adults, like
my, exactly. I enjoyed who
enjoyed doing this kind of
stuff. Yeah. The other thing
that I think is interesting
about picking this way to
teach people, things is with
Pico eight, of course, the
sprites and the sound effects
are built in and at
no time does the, does
the, the, the learner have
to maintain a file, right?
I've been having this issue
with teaching young people C
sharp, they'll save the file
and lose it. Like I
saved it on my desktop,
or I saved it in
my documents, or it ended
up in pictures while dealing
with sprites and stuff is
all kind of integrated. It's
a complete IDE for lack
of a better word for
making games. Yeah. I like
that's another reason I really
enjoyed is because it is
all self contained. So you're
just working in one environment.
Everything's all in one, When
you plan your games and
you've made a number of
games and you've done kind
of a top down, you
have a larger, top-down how
to make a top down
game. Do you plan out
the sprites ahead of time?
Do you plan, how do
you, where do you start?
If I was going to
sit down and I've finished
your tutorials, and now I
want to make a game,
what do I start at
Last way that I suggest
is to figure out what
are the systems you want
in your game and by
systems? I mean, what are
the, the very tight pieces
of functionality? Like for instance,
do you want the player
to move up down left?
Right? Do you want the,
do you want enemies to
move around on their own?
Do you want them to
just move on a track,
basically? You know, do you
want to have a scoring
system, things like that? You
like just decide those simple
systems that go into your
game and it can take
some time to figure out
what those are, but once
you have those, then you
can start to code those
individual systems. Like, for example,
okay, you want your player
to move? All right. Well,
let's you okay. Code how
you want them to move,
you know? And then right
now I want the enemy
to move. Okay, good. Let's,
you know, code that in.
And I found that breaking
it down into the systems
first really helps you because
then you, you know what
your game is actually composed
of also figuring out what's
called the game loop, which
is what's the flow of
the game. You know, there's
a lot of games that
feel really complex, but when
you break them down, they're
actually fairly simple. You know,
you're like, for instance, there's
lots of arcade games where,
you know, the, the game
loop is, you know, destroy
enemies, collect pickups, get stronger,
defeat a boss. And then
that loops around destroy enemy.
You know, it's like, yeah.
And it just, it's a,
it's a tight loop that
just consistently it can get
harder and harder and have
more types of enemies and
more types of pickups and
more types of upgrades and
bigger and better bosses. But
that game loop, you know,
is pretty much the same
thing the whole time. And
if you can figure out
what that game loop is,
that goes a long way
to being able to figure
out, okay, how do I
want to plan my game
and also understand how much
of my game have I
done? You know, that's a
really good Way to teach
kids systems thinking. I did
a great podcast on not
teaching kids, how to code,
but teaching people how to
think. Yes. And, and, you
know, like I said, I'm
grown, but you're making me
go back and think about,
like, for example, a game
that I made, I played
rather yesterday called control. That
just came out where you
play a Scarlet, Johanson looking
red head, who is a
secret agent who is also
telekinetic. And it's like, it's
the new hot AAA game
of the summer. Right. But
ultimately picking up stuff and
throwing it at stuff with
your mind, the things up
and make explosions is awesome.
And it will sustain you
for 15 to 20 hours.
You know, that's very true.
It's like, it's a whole
thing. And there's, you know,
famous actors and great voiceover
work and a huge plot,
but ultimately it's picking stuff
up in your mind and
blowing things up. Right. Yeah.
And you know, that's an
effective game loop. Yeah. Or
Zelda. Yeah. You could go
and break it all down
and Zelda and games, like
it also have sub system
within it that are also
fun. Like, like cooking. Yeah,
totally. Yeah. And he, and
each of those have their
own game loop and it
actually that translates really well
into how you're, how you
create the games in terms
of the code to, you
know, it makes it easy
to know like, Hey, what,
what does this code do?
Oh, this is to handle
this part of the game
loop. Interesting. And then once
you figured that out, it's
ultimately, I assume it's just
like the 80 20 rule.
Right. It's easy to get
80% of it working in
20% of the time. And
then you just tweak the
heck out of it until
it's truly enjoyable down to
the pixel. Yeah. It really
is true. Interesting. One of
the things that I found
a little bit confusing is
this concept of tables in
Pico eight, because it seems
to be the one and
only in primary data structure.
I'm curious when you're teaching
that to people, how do
you explain it? Tables are
kind of unique. That was
actually something I was struggling
with when trying to determine
would Pico eight, be a
good tool for teaching students
to learn how to code
is, how do I, how
do I deal with tables?
Because tables can act like
a raise where you have
like a numbered list of
things or they can act
like, you know, or like
a table where you were
each item has like its
own name. And really, I,
I realized it's, it comes
down to the concept of
it's a collection of things
and that's the simplicity of
it. It's a collection of
things. And that collection can
sometimes be ordered by number
or each item in the
collection has its own number,
you know, and, you know,
as, as we all know
it as an index, you
know, or it can be
a name, you know, you
can have player dot X,
player dot Y player dot
speed player.health, you know, but
it could have, you know,
it could just be a
list of enemies. And it's,
you know, the first enemy,
the second enemy, the third
enemy fourth, or it doesn't,
they don't really need identity,
you know? So that's how
I've effectively, you know, dealt
with tables is their collections,
collections of variables, Rather than
making folks go through data
structures, class and learning that
it's an array and it's
a hash table. It's a
list of generic objects. And
it's a, and it's a,
Because those are, you know,
just different types of collections,
maybe more, more structured, or
have more rules about how
that collection works. But essentially
they're just collections. That's very
interesting. And do you think
that people should go from
making a game like this
into something larger? Like, could
you learn this small and
then go and jump into
unity? Would it sets you
up for success? I found
that if you are learning
how to create these systems
and learning how that game
loop works and you know,
you're actually, you've got some
practice under your belt of
making con you know, consistently
making smaller games with these
different game loops. It helps
quite a bit when you
jump into something like unity,
which has a lot more,
you know, meat and weight
behind it. And there's lots
more things you have to
learn and have to have
set up, but it can
orient you and keep you
grounded into Oh, okay. For
unity. I need to all
these things so that I
can do this game loop,
you know, and there is
still the concept of a
game loop in Pico it
as well. You have, you
know, a start function and
update function, you know, things
like that, but all are
happening as part of the
game loop that you're there
directly translatable from things you
learned in Pico eight. So
this might be an ignorant
question, but you know, you
refer to the game loop,
you know, like init update,
draw, repeat. Yeah. Would a
triple a game somewhere it's.
I mean, it does, I
guess it has to have
a main, and it has
to have a game loop
somewhere. Yeah. Well, unity, how
it works. Unity games are
built on these fundamental things
called game objects and game
objects have a lifecycle that
very clearly, like when you
open a brand new game
objects code, the first thing
they drop right in without
you having to type anything
is a and an update,
you know, and the draws
kind of implied in unity
will handle the draw apart
for you. But the start
in update are right there.
Start happens once when the
game objects begins and update
happens every time it draws
to the screen, you know,
and that's just, you know,
that's how it's doing it.
And almost every game I
know has that concept built
into it, like a initialized
initialization, a start, and then
some thing that kind of
moves the game forward. So
in Portland where you and
I are, yeah, there's the
Portland indie game squad or
pig squad.com, right? You're a
nonprofit that supports game development.
What does that mean? Indie
game, indie game or any
game enthusiasm? What makes us
Indy that we don't have
a giant corporation telling us
what to do? Yeah. Or,
you know, you don't have
a huge, you know, corporate
structure to support you or
to, you know, dictate, you
know, what direction something's going.
It's, it's usually smaller groups
of people. I mean, some
of it's just a single
person. Some of it is,
you know, a small studio
of people. And the main
thing is that they have
their own direction, that they
can take things and without
having to, you know, deal
with anything else that goes
with having a larger structure
or a larger corporation with
it. And when I go
up and I look at
the picture of the, of
the, of using the indie
game squad, as an example,
you know, I see folks
of all kinds of people
from all kinds of backgrounds,
are these all gamers that
are supporting themselves with indie
games or do they all
have day jobs? And that
this is how this is
their hobby and their joy
on the side, It's all
over the spectrum. We have
people who do this as
a hobby. We have people
who do this, this they've
created studios and are doing
it as a studio. We
do have some people that
are part of the AAA
community that just kind of
want to be able to
do their own thing as
well. But a lot of
times it's just, it's, it's,
you know, it's a mix,
it's a good mix. And
is this something that's unique
to Portland? Or might there
be an indie game squad
or something like this in
the town or city that
the folks who are listening
live in There are other
groups that do similar things
to pig squad. Although from
my experience, pig squad does
seem to be unique in
the size at which we
do it. And the effectiveness
of which we have created
a really inclusive community for
people at all levels of
the game development field. Whether
they're just, again, whether they're
just doing it as a
hobby or, or whether they're
actually doing it as a
full studio. I also noticed
that we, we do have,
in terms of inclusivity, we
have people who do all
aspects of game development. A
lot of people think of
game developer development. They think
of programmers, but really that's
just one aspect of, you
know, dozens of different specializations
needed to make a game.
It's a really good point.
Like if my son was
talking about, he wants to
put an E a, he
called it an E sports
league thinks that this is
going to be something he
could do at his school.
But instead I'm thinking about
a way that would bring
everyone in his school together,
artists and musicians, you know,
putting together his own indie
game squad at his middle
school or his high school.
Yeah. Might be a way
because you're right. I'm pretty
decent programmer, but the sprites
that I've been making in
trash, let's just be real,
you know, so I, I'm
not a Swiss army knife.
I'm just really a lousy
pair of scissors. Yeah. For
one thing, having a really
good code of conduct that
really defines, you know, how
we expect people to interact
with each other is really
important. But presenting ourselves as
very welcoming to anyone who's
interested in games, whether it's
playing games or just making
them. And we found that
we ended up creating a
community of people that are
really willing to go out
of their way to help
other people and include other
people who might be kind
of shy about, you know,
diving in or not really.
There's a lot of imposter
syndrome that happens in the
field of game development. And
that's a very real thing
that people have to deal
with. And we try to
make it as easy as
possible for people to break
out of that and get
passed on. That's a great
point. Someone might be a
business analyst or an admin
in their day job, but
they've got a great idea
for a game system. They
could team up with a
programmer who doesn't have any
ideas and make it pretty
amazing game as a team.
Yeah. I mean, I've seen
people who their full time
job was writing code for
an insurance companies, and now
they work with a independent
game studio and that's their
full time job is making
games. Wow. That's fantastic. So
the easy on ramp could
be PicoWay it could be
unity, but this absolutely happens.
I, I, when I spoke
with Joseph White, the game Celeste,
which is an indie game,
darling yeah. Literally started out
as a prototype on PicoWay.
Yeah. Push the limits. And,
and now as a real
thing, I can buy on
my Nintendo switch or my
Xbox. Yeah. And you can
play the original  as
an Easter egg in the
full game. It's really great.
It's embedded in the actual
game. There's a little room
you can find, and there's
a little computer and if
you boot it up, you
can play the original Pico
weight version of Celeste inside
the now full, you know,
full title of Celeste say,
that's so cool. I love
that. It's a wonderful that
they did that. Yeah. Fantastic.
So people can find you
by searching for M boffin
B O F F I
N a and check out
the Pico magazine, the pig
squad, a lot of the
great stuff that you've done
up on itch.io. I'm gonna
make sure to include links
to all of this stuff
in the show notes. What
a great way to have
a nice gentle on-ramp into
game development. Thanks so much
for chatting with me today.
Yeah. I'm happy to be
here. This has been another
episode of Hanselminutes and we'll
see you again. .